---
title: "Subscriptions that I am grateful for"
date: 2023-01-15T23:13:27+01:00
tags:
  - update
  - life
---
I miss the days when I bought software on my Mac instead of using a subscription
As technology continues to advance, more and more software and services are
moving to subscription-based models. While this can be convenient in some cases,
it also means that we are constantly paying for things that we may not use or
need. In this blog post, I want to share my thoughts on subscriptions, including
those that I am grateful for paying for and those that I have stopped paying
for.
<!--more-->


## Subscriptions that I am grateful for
I am grateful for paying for several subscriptions that make my daily life
easier and more enjoyable. For example, I use Apple One which includes Apple
Music and Apple TV productions like Mythic Quest, See, and Foundation, which are
all things I use daily. The convenience of having all these services bundled
together in one subscription is great, and I love being able to access all of my
favorite content in one place.

I also use Tailscale, a software that allows me to connect to my devices
securely and fast, I use it every day. This software has been a game changer for
me, as it allows me to easily access my files and devices from anywhere. It's
also great that it's highly secure, so I know my information is safe.

Another subscription I am grateful for is YouTube Premium Lite, it's great to be
able to watch videos without having to deal with ads. As someone who spends a
lot of time on YouTube, this subscription has made a huge difference in my
viewing experience. I no longer have to sit through ads that I don't care about,
and I can just focus on the content that I want to watch.

NextDNS is a service that I pay for to block ads, I used to have PiHole and
AdGuard but since Raspberry Pis are hard to find, I prefer to pay this service
rather than maintain it at home. This service has been a lifesaver for me, as I
no longer have to deal with the constant barrage of ads that I used to see. I
can now enjoy my online experience without being constantly bombarded by ads,
and I think it's worth the cost.

LanguageTool is a European-based, multi-language tool that I discovered after
using Grammarly for a long time, it has full API access and integration with
Slack, Mail, and more native macOS apps. This tool has been a great help for me,
as I use it for both my personal and professional writing. It's great that it
supports multiple languages, and the fact that it has full API access and
integration with other apps is a huge plus.

Bitwarden is an open-source and self-hosted alternative to bloated
electron-based 1Password, after 10 years of using 1Password, I was disappointed
with the CTO's replies on Twitter. I appreciate the fact that Bitwarden is
open-source and self-hosted, as it gives me more control over my data. I also
like that it's a more lightweight alternative to 1Password, which I found to be
too bloated.

SimpleLogin is a valuable service that even though it has been bought by Proton,
it offers more than Apple/iCloud Hide My mail because I can own my email. With
SimpleLogin, I have more control over my email, which is great. I also like that
it's been bought by Proton, as it gives me more confidence in the security and
privacy of my email.


## Subscriptions that I am no longer grateful for
I have stopped paying for several subscriptions that I found were not worth the
cost or no longer met my needs. For example, Netflix, I used to enjoy the wide
range of content that it offered, but over time, the content that I cared about
was removed, and the new things are not interesting to me. I don't want to
subscribe just for one single TV show. I decided to cancel my subscription and
look for other options that better suit my taste in content.

ProtonMail, from being an end-to-end email provider, it became just a glorified
encryption at rest with PGP that can't keep up with features that others can. I
used to appreciate the level of security that ProtonMail provided, but as time
went on, I found that it was lacking in certain features that other email
providers offered. I also found that the service was becoming increasingly
expensive, so I decided to cancel my subscription and look for other options.

Nintendo Switch Online, I rarely use my Switch since I got my Steam Deck at the
beginning of this year. I found that the Steam Deck offered a wider range of
games and better graphics, and it was more convenient for me to play on my
computer rather than on my Switch. I also found that the subscription cost for
Nintendo Switch Online was becoming increasingly expensive, so I decided to
cancel my subscription.

Parcel App, the Danish postal system automatically notifies me and tracks on the
official App when a new parcel is coming to my address or has my email/phone
number. I found that the official postal service app was more convenient and
more reliable than the Parcel App. I also found that the subscription cost for
Parcel App was becoming increasingly expensive, so I decided to cancel my
subscription.

Grindr, it has never been worth it and NextDNS blocks ads perfectly. I found
that the ads on Grindr were becoming increasingly intrusive and annoying, so I
decided to cancel my subscription and look for other options.

1Password, since the client switched to Electron, I uninstalled it. It is clear
that they are now focusing more on enterprise and business, but I am still
annoyed about how they went for the money rather than for the UX and customer
fidelity. I found that the new electron-based client was slow and bloated, and I
didn't like the direction the company was going in. I decided to cancel my
subscription and look for other options.

## Give back to the communities
It's important to support the development of software that we care about,
especially for open-source projects. Open-source projects rely on contributions
from the community, both in terms of development and financial support. By
paying for subscriptions or buying apps from companies that contribute to free
software, we are supporting the development and maintenance of these projects.
Without financial support, many open-source projects would struggle to continue
development and maintenance. We can show our support by becoming a sponsor,
paying for a subscription, or buying apps from companies that contribute to
open-source software. In this way, we are not only getting access to the
software, but we are also contributing to the growth and sustainability of the
project. Supporting open-source projects is a way to give back to the community
and ensure that the software continues to be maintained, improved and available
for all. If you liked it: contribute or pay for it!

